---
title: Loudoun Soils
created: '2020-11-12T12:19:27.062969'
modified: '2020-12-04T18:10:03.533686'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Environmental
  - Loudoun County
  - Open Data
  - Soils
groups: []
csv_url: >-
  https://geohub-loudoungis.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets/e729f31091ba4c2287aae856d9fc59ac_1.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A2924%2C%22wkid%22%3A2924%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<p style='margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 1.55rem; font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; padding: 0px; font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.5em; color: rgb(77, 77, 77);'><a href='https://logis.loudoun.gov/metadata/Soils%20(poly).htm' style='color: rgb(0, 121, 193); text-decoration: none;' target='_blank'>More Metadata</a><br /></p><div style='font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: small; line-height: normal; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);'><font color='#000000'>Abstract:The general soil association map outlines broad areas which have distinctive patterns in landscape and general geographic appearance. Each of the soil associations has a unique set of features which effect general use and management including shape and length of slope; width of ridgetops and valleys; frequency, size, and direction of streams; type of vegetation, rate of growth; and agriculture. These differences are largely the result of broad differences in kinds of soils and in the geologic materials from which the soils formed. A mapping unit typically consists of one or more major soils with minor soils, and is named for the major soils. This map shows, in small scale, a summary of the information contained on the individual detailed soil maps for Loudoun County. Because of its small scale and general soil descriptions, it is not suitable for planning small areas or specific sites, but it does present a general picture of soils in the County, and can show large areas generally suited to a particular kind of agriculture or other special land use. For more detailed and specific soils information, please refer to the detailed soils maps and other information available from the County Soil Scientist. Digital data consists of mapping units of the various soil types found in Loudoun County, Virginia. The data were collected by digitizing manuscript maps derived from USDA soil maps and supplemented by both field work and geological data. Field work for the soil survey was first conducted between 1947 and 1952. Soils were originally shown at the scale of 1:15840 and then redrafted by the County soil scientist to 1:12000; the data were redrafted a final time to fit Loudoun County's base map standard of 1:2400. Although the current data rely heavily on the original soil survey, there have been extensive field checks and alterations to the soil map based on current soil concepts and land use. The data are updated as field site inspections or interpretation changes occur.</font></div><div style='font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: small; line-height: normal; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);'><font color='#000000'><br /></font></div><div style='font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: small; line-height: normal; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);'><font color='#000000'>Purpose:Digital data are used to identify the mapping unit potential for a variety of uses, such as agriculture drainfield suitability, construction concerns, or development possibility. This material is intended for planning purposes, as well as to alert the reader to the broad range of conditions, problems, and use potential for each mapping unit. The mapping unit potential use rating refers to the overall combination of soil properties and landscape conditions. The information in this data set will enable the user to determine the distribution and extent of various classes of soil and generally, the types of problems which may be anticipated. HOW NOT TO USE THIS INFORMATION The information in this guide is NOT intended for use in determining specific use or suitability of soils for a particular site. It is of utmost importance that the reader understand that the information is geared to mapping unit potential and not to specific site suitability. An intensive on-site evaluation should be made to verify the soils map and determine the soil/site suitability for the specific use of a parcel. The original Soil Survey was written for agricultural purposes, but the emphasis has shifted to include urban/suburban uses. The Revised Soil Survey is currently under technical review and is expected to be published by 2006.</font></div><p style='margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 1.55rem; font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; padding: 0px; font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.5em;'><font color='#000000'><br /></font></p><div style='font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: small; line-height: normal; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);'><font color='#000000'>Supplemental information:The Interpretive Guide to the Use of Soils Maps; Loudoun County, VA, is available at the Public Information Counter for the Office of Mapping and Geographic Information. It contains more detailed soils information. Data are stored in the corporate ArcSDE Geodatabase as a polygon feature class. The coordinate system is Virginia State Plane (North), Zone 4501, datum NAD83 HARN.</font></div>
